en: add doc for access tidb dashboard (#305)
pingcap/docs-tidb-operator: en/access-dashboard.md

---
title: Access TiDB Dashboard
summary: Learn how to access TiDB Dashboard in Kubernetes.
category: how-to
---

# Access TiDB Dashboard

TiDB Dashboard is a visualized tool in TiDB 4.0 used to monitor and diagnose the TiDB cluster. For details, see [TiDB Dashboard](https://github.com/pingcap-incubator/tidb-dashboard).

This document describes how to access TiDB Dashboard in Kubernetes.

## Quick start

> **Warning:**
>
> This guide shows how to quickly access TiDB Dashboard. Do **NOT** use this method in the production environment. For production environments, refer to [Access TiDB Dashboard by Ingress](#access-tidb-dashboard-by-ingress).

> TiDB Dashboard is built in the PD component in 4.0 versions. You can refer to the following example to quickly deploy a 4.0.0-rc TiDB cluster in Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Dashboard is built in the PD component in 4.0 versions. You can refer to the following example to quickly deploy a v4.0.0-rc TiDB cluster in Kubernetes.
```

1. Deploy the following `.yaml` file into the Kubernetes cluster by running the `kubectl apply -f` command:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: TidbCluster
    metadata:
    name: basic
    spec:
    version: v4.0.0-rc
    timezone: UTC
    pvReclaimPolicy: Delete
    pd:
        baseImage: pingcap/pd
        replicas: 1
        requests:
        storage: "1Gi"
        config: {}
    tikv:
        baseImage: pingcap/tikv
        replicas: 1
        requests:
        storage: "1Gi"
        config: {}
    tidb:
        baseImage: pingcap/tidb
        replicas: 1
        service:
        type: ClusterIP
        config: {}
    ```

2. After the cluster is created, expose TiDB Dashboard to the local machine by running the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl port-forward svc/tidb-pd -n ${namespace} 2379:2379
    ```

3. Visit <http://localhost:2379/dashboard> in your browser to access TiDB Dashboard.

## Access TiDB Dashboard by Ingress

> In critical production environments, it is recommended to expose the TiDB Dashboard service using Ingress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In important production environments, it is recommended to expose the TiDB Dashboard service using Ingress.
```

> Because the built-in TiDB Dashboard uses the same port as PD APIs do, if you expose TiDB Dashboard in other methods, note that the interfaces related to PD APIs should not be exposed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the built-in TiDB Dashboard uses the same port as PD APIs do, if you expose TiDB Dashboard in other methods, note that the interfaces related to PD APIs should not be exposed.
```
```suggestion
Because the built-in TiDB Dashboard uses the same port as PD APIs do, if you expose TiDB Dashboard in other methods, do not expose the interfaces related to PD APIs.
```

---
title: Access TiDB Dashboard
summary: Learn how to access TiDB Dashboard in Kubernetes.
category: how-to
---

# Access TiDB Dashboard

TiDB Dashboard is a visualized tool in TiDB 4.0 used to monitor and diagnose the TiDB cluster. For details, see [TiDB Dashboard](https://github.com/pingcap-incubator/tidb-dashboard).

This document describes how to access TiDB Dashboard in Kubernetes.

## Quick start

> > **Note:**

Reviewer: What about using `Warning`?
```suggestion
> **Warning:**
```

>

> > This guide shows how to quickly access TiDB Dashboard. Do not use this method in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This guide shows how to quickly access TiDB Dashboard. Do **NOT** use this method in the production environment.
```

> TiDB Dashboard is built-in the PD component in 4.0 versions. You can refer to the following example to quickly deploy a 4.0.0-rc TiDB cluster in Kubernetes.

Reviewer: @Yisaer v4.0.0-rc is not the recommended TiDB version because some issues are found in this version. See 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/41534398/82537857-548d8700-9b7d-11ea-9ad0-bc5be9ba0d09.png). What about using another version for your example?

```suggestion
TiDB Dashboard is built in the PD component in 4.0 versions. You can refer to the following example to quickly deploy a 4.0.0-rc TiDB cluster in Kubernetes.
```

Author: If this is just a quick start guide, not meant for the production environment, I think it's okay to use this version?

1. Deploy the following `.yaml` file into the Kubernetes cluster by running the `kubectl apply -f` command:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: pingcap.com/v1alpha1
    kind: TidbCluster
    metadata:
    name: basic
    spec:
    version: v4.0.0-rc
    timezone: UTC
    pvReclaimPolicy: Delete
    pd:
        baseImage: pingcap/pd
        replicas: 1
        requests:
        storage: "1Gi"
        config: {}
    tikv:
        baseImage: pingcap/tikv
        replicas: 1
        requests:
        storage: "1Gi"
        config: {}
    tidb:
        baseImage: pingcap/tidb
        replicas: 1
        service:
        type: ClusterIP
        config: {}
    ```

> 2. After the cluster is created, expose TiDB to the local machine by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. After the cluster is created, expose TiDB Dashboard to the local machine by running the following command:
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```shell
    kubectl port-forward svc/tidb-pd -n ${namespace} 2379:2379
    ```

3. Visit <http://localhost:2379/dashboard> in your browser to access TiDB Dashboard.

## Access TiDB Dashboard by Ingress

> > **Note:**

Reviewer: It seems unnecessary to write this passage in the note format because there is only one passage between two titles.

>
> It is recommended to expose the TiDB Dashboard service using Ingress in critical production environments.
>

> > Because the built-in TiDB Dashboard uses the same port as PD APIs, if you expose TiDB Dashboard in other methods, note that the interfaces related to PD APIs should not be exposed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Because the built-in TiDB Dashboard uses the same port as PD APIs do, if you expose TiDB Dashboard in other methods, note that the interfaces related to PD APIs should not be exposed.
```

### Prerequisites

Before using Ingress, install the Ingress controller in your Kubernetes cluster. Otherwise, simply creating Ingress resources does not take effect.

To deploy the Ingress controller, refer to [ingress-nginx](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/). You can also choose from [various Ingress controllers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/).

### Use Ingress

> You can expose the TiDB Dashboard service outside of the Kubernetes cluster by using Ingress. This way, the service can be accessed from outside of Kubernetes by way of `http/https`. For more details, see [Ingress](https://kubernetes.io/zh/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can expose the TiDB Dashboard service outside the Kubernetes cluster by using Ingress. In this way, the service can be accessed outside Kubernetes via `http`/`https`. For more details, see [Ingress](https://kubernetes.io/zh/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/).
```

The following is an `.yaml` example of accessing TiDB Dashboard using Ingress:

1. Deploy the following `.yaml` file to the Kubernetes cluster by running the `kubectl apply -f` command:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
    kind: Ingress
    metadata:
    name: access-dashboard
    namespace: ${namespace}
    spec:
    rules:
        - host: ${host}
        http:
            paths:
            - backend:
                serviceName: ${cluster_name}-pd
                servicePort: 2379
                path: /dashboard
    ```

> 2. Visit <http://${host}/dashboard> from outside of the Kubernetes cluster to access TiDB Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. After Ingress is deployed, you can access TiDB Dashboard via <http://${host}/dashboard> outside the Kubernetes cluster.
```

## Enable Ingress TLS

> **Note:**
>
> Ingress presumes that Transport Layer Security (TLS) is terminated. Therefore, if the current TiDB cluster enables [TLS verification](enable-tls-between-components.md), you cannot access TiDB Dashboard by Ingress.

> Ingress supports TLS (see [Ingress TLS](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#tls)). The following example shows how to use Ingress TLS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ingress supports TLS. See [Ingress TLS](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/#tls). The following example shows how to use Ingress TLS:
```
